Downloaded from
YTS.MX
(somber music)
Official YIFY movies site:
YTS.MX
(thunder)
(ominous music)
- Should we light a fire?
Housekeeper!
Somebody help us!
- Boy where are you?
Get yourself down here boy.
No. no fires we can't attract attention.
Boy we need your help.
- [George] Big enough even for him.
- Watch your mouth.
Our circumstances may
be unique but that does
not give you free license for disrespect.
- You sound ready for office.
- I'm only ready to serve.
- I'm sure you are ready to
serve. your own interests.
- Well this is ideal.
I'll get the others.
- Finer men than you have
died at my feet. for less.
(somber music)
- [George] He's even heavier
now than outside. in the rain.
- [Duncan] You complain like a woman.
Just hold your end and stop chattering.
- [Malcolm] We're nearly there.
- [George] You're more familiar
with the complaints of women.
Be careful. don't drop your end.
- He'll hear us.
Just keep moving.
I'll need bandages. water. and light.
Get some candles from downstairs.
- And check the kitchens for food.
- Food. at a time like this?
- Weak stomach.
- Must be the company I keep.
- You two can look for the boy.
He'll have a better grasp of
the geography of the house.
- This situation makes me uneasy.
There's more at stake
here than reputation.
The coincidence of circumstance
may give rise to suspicion.
- There is nothing more to
this than meets the eye.
- Attacked on the open road.
Not a soul in sight.
- The perfect conditions
for crime. surely.
- For the perfect crime. perhaps.
- [George] Let's get to the larders
and we can discuss your
theories over a light supper.
- Something is not right here.
This house for one thing.
empty. but for one servant boy.
- I'm not denying our situation.
but your worrying would find
suspicion even in the wall carvings.
We were attacked and we are
sheltering. licking our wounds.
as simple as that.
- Only one of us wounded.
The most protected of us.
That in itself raises my suspicions.
But the motive. no money taken.
- Nothing taken and no harm done.
- Not yet.
- [Guard] Smells musty.
- [Guard] The books probably.
- [Guard] Strange.
A library with no books.
- Get off me you mad fool.
Are you trying to finish me off?
- Your wound needs cleaning your Majesty.
- If it needs cleaning. then clean it.
By Christ if you continue
to tease my wound
I'll inflict a mightier one on you.
Get me some wine.
- The others will be back. shortly.
I don't want to leave
you in this condition.
- If you all showed the same concern
at the time I wouldn't be run through.
You look in remarkably good condition.
Any fatalities?
- No. your Majesty.
- Any other injuries?
- So I managed to save
everyone by taking the fall.
- It all happened so quickly that.
- You only had time to protect
your own skinny behinds.
And our aggressor?
- He fled.
- Not before you all begged liked dogs
for your lives no doubt.
Get me the bloody wine. now.
- [George] You'll take an hourly rotation
to guard the roof. the
front. and the King's room.
- [Duncan] You must keep
vigilant for the boy.
He's of more benefit alive.
particularly if he knows something.
- He is only a boy and
may well be innocent.
No bullish behavior.
(thunder)
They're a bit hard. want one?
- His Majesty is awake.
- Ah. yes we thought
we heard another roar.
- And he's looking for wine.
- I'll go.
- He'll be looking for
answers before long.
Will you oblige there as well?
- What does he remember?
- Everything. it seems.
though he's not too happy
about us being unscathed.
- And the wound.
- I've cleaned it.
But the legs are badly ulcerated.
But they're not any more
infected than they were before.
There's considerable discomfort.
- [Henry] Where's my wine.
- His maturity of years
haven't mellowed him.
- Perhaps we should all
go back in together.
Where are the guards?
- On the roof. and the front door.
and one was supposed to
be on duty by this door.
- A sound and I'll snap you like a twig.
- Too sweet.
- Now I've heard you use many
superlatives on his Majesty.
but that is a first.
- The wine you fool.
- So you've got wine for us.
- Only this half. he drank the rest.
- Always was a bit of
selected wine critic.
- What's going on. when will he see us?
- In a hurry to be chastised?
- He'll see you now.
- Age before intelligence and beauty.
- Humf.
His anger I can cope with.
but this shutting us out.
is unlike him and it unnerves me.
- You like your monarch's
to be predictable.
- I like to think of him as reliable.
It is out of character of
him to behave in this way.
- It's not everyday you survive
an assassination attempt.
- I don't think you ought to
feed the king's suspicion.
- Why. what's his theory?
- I'm not sure that he has one.
but he never was too
welcoming of questions.
even in his more receptive moods.
- [Henry] Where's my wine?
- [Malcolm] Go straight through.
- But perhaps I should wait for the wine.
When he is more mellow. he is more.
- Forgiving?
- Sure minded.
- [Malcolm] He wants you now.
- When I speak you reply only with
a nod or a shake of your head.
Do you understand?
Are you alone here?
Don't play games with me.
You're gambling with your life.
I'll ask you again. are you alone here.
are there any other members
of this household here?
You're getting the hang of this.
If I am to release my grip.
you won't run or shout?
You will run and shout?
That's better.
What about a game?
I could have killed you if I wanted.
Oh come on a game will
civilize the situation.
I'm Thorn.
- William. Will.
- There's a lot more going on here. Will.
than you probably realize.
- Who are you?
- That's not important.
What's going on here is.
There is a situation unfolding this
night which may break this country.
- I'm only the groundkeeper's son.
I don't own or even run this house.
- That much I've gathered for myself.
But there is a matter of great
importance unfolding here.
A matter of state.
- I can't help you with
matters of politics.
I have more urgent concerns.
- Like your guests.
- They were not invited by me or anyone.
they are not guests of this house.
- Nor am I for that matter.
- I am trusted with the
safe keeping of this house
and don't intend to lose my
position within this household.
- There are other positions
in other households.
- I've been here since I was born.
- So you know the house well?
- Well enough to know that there
is nothing of value here.
no hidden treasures.
His Lordship is away until spring
and what little supplies there
are will only sustain me.
- You think I'm a thief?
Come to rob this house of all its riches?
But you may be surprised to
learn that there is something.
or should I say. someone. of value here.
What do you know of your guests?
- You still haven't told me who you are.
- You better sit.
You say you're not a politician
but you must have a view. an opinion.
Is this you?
- I don't understand.
- Oh I think you do.
Intimate place you have here. very cold.
They don't make you live here surely?
To wind the clock.
- I have quarters in the house.
My duties are whatever his
Lord and Ladyship require.
I tend the gardens.
See to repairs.
- But no room for your chess.
your writings or your diary?
In your quarters below.
I'm not that concerned with
the mood swings of youth
and household gossip.
But you are more complex an individual
than you will admit to me.
This is you on the outside.
but inside you have aspirations.
they could cost you dear.
A boy with fire in his
belly. I'm right aren't I?
What do you know of the new arrivals?
- They broke through the door.
- Not thieves. then if they're still here.
Unless they're blind or very stupid.
- With the commotion of the storm
I thought they were here to rob the house.
They have two hounds.
- How many in total?
- Hounds?
Two.
- No. men.
- Six I think. but they
were carrying another.
- A large ox-like man.
- Yes.
Did you see him?
- I know of him.
So if they're not here to rob.
what conclusions have you drawn?
- None.
- Oh come on Will. you have the movements
and manner of someone with a plan.
- They're just a injured party who
want shelter from the elements.
- Well then why hide on the roof?
You know that something isn't right.
- What's your theory?
- I have no theory. just facts.
Your guest is a man of some stature.
- That is obvious.
- I am deadly serious.
It is the human line of
defense which makes a monarchy.
Without the people there is no reason
and therefore no monarchy.
- What are you saying?
- You have a brain. use it.
- Wait. there's questions.
(ominous music)
- Aaargh.
I'm surrounded by incompetence.
Aargh.
- Sire. your wound needs attention.
- From a physician. not a butcher.
- An infection may spread.
- When I look around at your faces.
it's clear to see where
an infection might lie.
You all hang on to me and my
court like simpering dogs.
only without the loyalty
one can expect from a hound.
There is a rot that has gone
unattended for too long.
It may be too late.
- I've cleaned it as best I can.
but there should be no
lasting affect. only a scar.
- The mark of a warrior.
This grand. empty house.
is like a barren woman.
There is much on offer.
An exterior of promise. of
beauty of grace and strength.
but inside an empty vessel.
- We'll be out of here by morning. sire.
- That should be a relief to you at least.
This situation is showing
me your true worth.
For all your mighty
talk and advice of war.
you are all weak. feeble creatures.
Or is there more to this
situation than you have told me?
- The injury is causing you distress.
- Don't think this
situation makes me deluded.
or gives you license
for treasonous remarks.
My eyes are opening.
but all I can see is this old ragged body
which is more bulk than stature.
But what would you know.
you've no taste of life.
or death. no wars fought.
But then. perhaps wars are
not the way forward anyway.
- But war is an inevitability.
- My father never thought much of war
except as a device for raising taxes.
As a well run and peaceful country
your people frown at taxes.
but cheer us in to war and with smiles
on their faces pay their taxes.
- Matters of state can surely
wait until your recovery.
- And what if that recovery doesn't come?
Will my country be orphaned?
Will any of you even care?
- Sire?
- I'm tired.
Leave me.
I'm sure I've given you enough topic
for conversation to see
you through to morning.
Leave the dumb animal.
One of the few I can trust
around here. aren't you?
Well what are you two waiting for?
Some of the same?
Get out and get me the bloody wine.
- Yes sire.
- Will you require anything else. sire?
- If I do you'll know where to
find me just follow the roar.
Keep me informed.
- [Duncan] You found him then.
- What does he know?
- Only to watch things more closely.
How is he?
Is it time for me?
- There's no permanent damage.
but he's not too happy
about the situation.
- Does he want to see me?
- Well I don't think.
- I don't think you want
to keep him waiting.
(ominous music)
- Your Majesty.
- Who's there?
Is that you Catherine.
What's going on. is the house ablaze?
Or are you trying to push me
into my grave ahead of time?
Will I have to fight you for an answer?
- I'm sorry your Majesty.
I thought that you wanted to see me.
- Whatever for?
I expressly decided to be left to myself.
Or are you another one who thinks
he can over rule the king of England?
- No. I. I.
- Have you come to give me your
version of tonight's events.
- Sire?
- Don't you think it slightly curious
that of three courtiers
and three of my guards.
on a journey known to only four of us
we should be attacked
and only I am injured.
- Coincidence?
- I should bloody well
hope it wasn't by design.
- I did warn of leaving the palace
under the current circumstances.
- These current circumstances you refer
to are supposed to make me a
prisoner in my own country?
- There is opinion in the land
of which your Majesty is aware.
- From a minority.
- A minority. yes.
But enemies.
- Enemies are commonplace for a king.
Whole nations can have a
fire of hate in their bellies
does that mean I shouldn't venture out
amongst my people. in my country?
I also remember. it was
your advice to go forth
amongst my people to
forge a greater respect.
- I'm here. we all are to
serve you and protect you from.
- And what a fine example of
your station you provide here
a fitting example of what
not to have in a courtier.
Get out and don't come
back until you can find
an adequate explanation
for this catastrophe.
because until you do I hold you all
guilty for the attempt on my life.
And if that's too much for
you to take responsibility for
don't come back until
you fill that with wine.
(ominous music)
You don't answer me back. do you?
Although I dare say you
would given half a chance.
Perhaps I'll come back as a
dog. Rome would like that.
Or perhaps I'm living
out my punishment now
and the ultimate existence is as a dog.
- Secrets?
- Glad to see you. was he?
- In just the right mood
for visitors was he?
- Enjoy your apples?
- I don't believe I've seen
you break into a sweat before.
- [Malcolm] Not without the
presence of a whore at least.
- Brave words. he may attack.
What. no witty retort?
- No biting sarcasm?
- I think that his majes.
- Who are you accusing?
- What are you saying. that
we are plotting. contriving?
- There is more going
on here than we realize.
- You mean the boy?
- But he's only a servant boy.
how could he even understand?
- Have you questioned him?
- About what?
If we reveal too much then we
will do more harm than good.
- He has no idea that it is
the king of England who
lies injured upstairs?
- No.
- He would be acting
differently if he knew.
- How can you say that?
You don't know him.
Up in the tower I found a diary.
some writing and a chess board.
- Oooh. then we need go no further.
A sure sign of weak character
and a traitor in the making.
We should have all chess sets
burned on order of the king.
- The boy is presenting
us with a shallow image.
Almost too simplistic.
- I'm going for a look around.
at least try and stay awake.
- We should present him with the full
facts to see what he knows.
By morning we will be gone.
the situation will be a bad dream for us
and an elaborate unsubstantiated tale
for the servant boy to explain away.
- But what if he is believed
and we are mentioned.
- I have not mentioned my name to him.
- [Duncan] Nor I.
- Have you?
- No.
- Where the hell is he?
Well we may as well have
just cut our own throats.
We must find him.
- [Duncan] We'll have to
split up and search the house.
- [Malcolm] But he knows
the house inside out.
- [George] Frightened of a servant boy?
- [Malcolm] No. but I
worry about the king.
- He's not going anywhere.
- I'll stay with the king.
- You want to be at the epicenter?
- No. you're right. I should
help look round the house.
- We'll need you to stay
by his Majesty's side.
or the door to his bedroom at least.
- Let us see if we can't raise a scent.
(ominous music)
- What have we here a
midnight chimney sweep?
- I'm sorry. sir.
- Sir. is it?
- I'm not a chimney sweep.
but there's nothing to be frightened of.
- It looks as if that role
falls squarely on your shoulders.
- I will see to the mess. sir.
- Who is this sir you refer to?
- I make no assumptions since
we have not been introduced.
but I am Will the groundkeeper's
son for this house.
I have no other role here.
- Are all your guests treated
to the same pantomime.
or is this performance reserved
for the elderly and generally infirm?
- I can't help you. sir.
- Of course. you're
the groundkeeper's son.
But I'm sure you know where
the best of the wine is kept. don't you?
I'm sure you know a lot about this house
and what has transpired this evening.
- But I'm only.
- The groundkeeper's son.
Tell me then where is the
groundkeeper's son's father?
- Well the house is closed for the season.
It is my task to ensure the upkeep.
small repairs. and control any vermin.
- Such as unwanted guests.
- Oh no. sir.
- Do you know who we are?
- No. sir.
- Do you know who I am. then?
- No. sir. we have not been introduced.
- Do you not want to ask. who we are.
who I am. and what gives us license
to intrude on you on
this godforsaken night?
- I wouldn't presume to
question your motives.
- Why not. we may be thieves or bandits?
- I think that unlikely. sir.
the others do not appear to be
interested in the contents of the house.
- Yes. the others. what have they conveyed
to you about our identity.
- Nothing.
- You are not curious?
- No. sir.
- Even though they have
broken into this house
and made free use of it for lodgings.
and you placed with the
defense of this house.
And taken liberties with your supplies.
- I'll get you more wine. sir.
- Stop.
Answer me truthfully boy.
or you may lose your head.
Why were you up there?
You've already admitted that
you're not a chimney sweep.
- I was frightened.
- Of what. I thought you
are the groundkeeper's son.
who has no thoughts or opinions.
what have you to be scared of. the night?
- I am confused.
- You know that there
is something amiss here.
you probably know more than me.
- But I was sleeping when you
and your friends broke
through to find shelter.
- If it was just shelter.
then why not let us through anyway?
And these friends you speak of.
were they friendly or charitable to you?
- Oh no. sir.
- Then why assume they are such to me?
If any one of them claimed
to be my true friend.
I should probably be as
worried as you claim you are.
- But I saw them carry you in
and they were concerned
for your well-being.
They had a mighty
struggle to get you here.
- Really?
- Oh I mean the stairs is very narrow.
And the corridors are very dark
and this is a difficult room to reach.
- I'm a hefty old ox who can barely
walk at the best of times
and they broke their lazy
backs getting me this far.
It's probably the hardest
work they've seen all year.
but now that I am up this far.
they can scheme and weave
some gossip. like old women.
- I see. you're their employer.
- Yes. of sorts.
I saw you downstairs in the main hall.
You looked worried and left.
What drew you back.
- The cold air and the rain.
- Your honesty is refreshing. boy. Will.
Well Will. let me introduce myself.
I am Henry.
- Pleased to meet you. Henry
- I can see you must have thoroughly
cleaned all the chimneys in the house.
judging by the amount you've
brought down with you.
- So what happened to you?
- I fell from a horse.
Or perhaps I was pushed.
it's all the same since I'm
left incapacitated by this.
- It has been cleaned and bandaged.
- And for that I should be grateful?
- Oh.
Nice ring.
- It was downstairs.
by the main fireplace.
I was going to return it.
- So you decided to keep it on
your thumb for safe keeping?
- Yes.
- Keep it I have plenty.
Anyway what use are such trinkets.
you can't take them with you when you go?
- Yes you can Henry.
I'll just get some butter to ease it off.
- No Will. when you go.
Or if Rome has it's way.
- But your wound is clean. it will heal.
- I am less concerned with
the wound. but how I got it.
- Falling off your horse. you said.
- But why was mine the only one to fall
and I the only one to be injured.
and for it to happen here.
so far from anywhere?
- And Rome?
Why would Rome want you?
- It's a long. but very interesting story.
- But you're not going to tell me?
- What do you think of the
current state of things?
- You'll probably be left with a scar.
- Not that.
The country is in turmoil I'm told.
The people are unhappy I'm told.
- Have you been away then. Henry. abroad?
- In mind if not in body.
- I don't understand.
- Would you fight for your country?
- Yes.
- Would you fight for your king?
- Oh aye.
- What opinion do you hold of our king?
- I really need to get washed.
This soot will stain my skin.
and these clothes are ruined.
- Oh to be young again.
in the flush of youth.
- But with maturity comes
dignity and respect.
You have people who rely
on you for their wages.
- I'd trade it all for my youth.
- And lose the stature and the honor
and the respect which you have earned?
- I don't have long left.
- No. your wound is healing.
- I am tired. I have been fighting illness
and I am weak with indifference.
My few friends have deserted
me. my wives have left me.
- You a widower then. Henry?
- In more ways than one.
- But. sir. there must be some family.
- Too much family. too many relatives.
cousins. brothers by law. fathers by law.
sisters by law. the list
is endless and draining.
I am spent.
- I will make peace with your friends
and find you something to eat and drink.
- You are naive if you think you
can find a friend in that lot.
- But they will do me no
harm now that we are friends.
- The opposite is likely.
You don't understand
what is happening here.
We are not here by chance.
It is no coincidence that we
diverted to this side of London.
It is by design that I am
here and with this wound
I am convinced that I
will not see the morning.
- But the storm is not here by design.
- There is a traitor amongst us.
- Too much wine can do that.
- I'm not a drunken old fool
who doesn't know his own mind.
- What are you doing boy.
- This is an outrage.
- Yes an outrage.
- I didn't do anything. he did.
- Hold you tongue boy.
- Your Majesty. our humblest of apologies.
this rat must have tunneled around
the chimney's of the house.
- Your Majesty?
- Fall to your knees boy in
the presence of the King of England.
- He has killed one of the guards.
- I didn't kill him.
- Silence.
- Has anyone seen Catherine?
I thought she was here.
- The king needs his rest.
- If you see Catherine. be
sure to send her through.
- My darling Henry.
- I fear for his Majesty's sanity.
- His sanity is not ours to question.
- Besides we have a murderer in our midst.
- I never remembered you as being
so coy in the presence of women.
- What do you want?
- What I've always wanted.
to be Queen and to serve
you and this country.
- Who is it?
Who's there?
Catherine is it you?
Get out you fool. get out.
When I want you. you're not there.
The first sign of madness.
I'll be talking to myself next.
Are you dying. too. dog?
We will rot away in this place together.
Does something ail you?
Your past romantic encounters
come to haunt you. after midnight.
(ominous music)
What is this?
- It is what women were made for. Henry.
Do you not recognize the pleasure.
the beauty. the joy.
of receiving your seed?
- No make it go away.
- As you wish.
You always did get your own way. Henry.
What is this. the king of the land
frightened by the dark and the shadows?
- I am frightened of no man or beast.
- Which am I?
- You sound familiar. yet alien.
You remind me of someone. or somebody.
yet your face is almost
that of a stranger.
- Can you not face me. Henry?
Or can you not face what you have done?
- You have Catherine's eyes.
Jane's smile. Anne's disposition.
Are you any of these. or
are you a night demon.
a dream to torment me?
- To torment you?
Does this mean you admit
to remorse or guilt for our treatment?
- I am guilty of making
you Queen of England.
the envy of all who see you.
- At what price?
- My sanity by the looks of things.
- I was not barren. I was worse.
I was the receptacle of still born heirs.
I was a whore. a schemer.
(ominous music)
- Your friend in the tower.
who was he and what were
you conspiring together?
- You keep asking the same questions
but I can only give you the same answers.
There is nobody else
staying in this house.
- I heard conversation.
- I talk to myself.
- You know what treason is?
- I would die for my country.
- It may just come to that.
- I think if he had anything to tell us.
we would have heard it by now.
- The king may be in danger.
- His wound looks painful. but not fatal.
- We have a physician in our midst.
You have killed a man on this night. Will.
and for that there is no escape.
- But we may be able to help you.
- I didn't kill him. he fell.
- That will be for a judge to decide.
- He was climbing the chimney. he fell.
I cannot be tried for a
crime I did not commit.
- If a man can kill he can surely lie.
which is why your protests of innocence
are falling on deaf ears.
- You don't care whether
I'm guilty or not.
That guard would probably have
killed me if he'd gotten his hands on me.
- So you admit to having
struggled with him?
- Yes. but.
- We can overlook this matter.
but only if you are
true and honest with us.
- You said the king may be in danger.
- Our king is gravely ill.
His mind is occupied by
demons by day and night.
- And his dementia grows with
each twist and turn of his life.
- But he may well have good cause
for suspicion on this night.
- This is of the highest confidentiality.
- [Will] I was confronted
by a man who claimed
to be the king's friend. in the tower.
He questioned my loyalty.
He says that the king was in danger
and that I was to help him.
And there was some question about
the survival of the monarchy.
- [George] Trying to
conscript an accomplice.
- [Duncan] He would have left you
with the consequences of his crime.
- [Malcolm] You will be a national hero
and the king will bestow you with honors.
- [George] Your master will be informed
of your courageous actions on his return.
(ominous music)
- [Thorn] I've been expecting you.
- Why weren't you honest with me?
- I didn't mislead you.
- Our king lies injured
and you were busy playing games with me.
- I had to be sure you could be trusted.
- Trusted?
To help you betray the country?
- That's not it at all.
- You would have used
me for your own purposes
and left me to take the full
punishment for your crime.
I was a fool not to
see through you before.
I met with the king.
- Oh really and how did you fair?
- He wasn't the king in my
mind. just an injured old man.
- Disappointed?
- Surprised.
- That he was old and decrepit?
- No. no. that he was just
so ordinary. so human.
- That's a great truth. or lie isn't it
depending on your point of
view about our monarchy.
they're just people. same as you and I.
The pageantry is their device
to persuade you otherwise.
Behind all that pomp and ceremony
lie terrified people
frightened of being caught out.
Weakness in the eyes of their subjects
and eventual death is
the ultimate humiliation.
- Is our King dying?
- Yeah. we're all dying
from the day of our birth.
He's having strange visitations.
His past is catching up
with him. you might say.
- Past sins?
- That and guilt.
Henry is being tortured by
the images of his previous marriages.
They do say life flashes in
front of you before you die.
But tell me.
if you didn't know he was
King Henry. did he tell you?
- I was calling him Henry and sir.
- Off to the tower and off with his head.
Why can you not face me. Will?
- Because you are a traitor.
- For having an opinion?
- No. for the assassination
of the King of England.
- You fool. what have you done?
- I have met the king.
For all his faults he is a good man
who doesn't deserve to be slaughtered.
(ominous music)
- Even in death you women are a torment.
Was I such a bad husband?
Was I?
Even you damn dog. have an opinion.
Damn you all.
I am spent and broken.
England is spent and broken.
Is this how it will end?
(thunder)
- Quite a gathering. I am honored.
- Keep your mouth shut.
- It'll be just you then?
- No more questions.
- You won't get away with this.
- I think that you will find that it
is you who will not be
getting away with anything.
- Trust the others. do you?
- We all have the same goal.
- Of that I'm sure.
- Meaning?
- I've been watching you all this night.
None of you could claim
to be without some sin.
this of all nights.
- Silence. the others are coming.
- There are dead guards in the cellar.
I'm sure they didn't fall on their swords.
Too close to the bone.
- Problems?
- I need some air.
- I know what's going on here.
- You'll be beheaded for treason.
- You may as well confess
and cleanse yourself
before the eyes of god.
- Very good.
You'll have them crying in Rome.
- We have the king's
best interests at heart.
- You all have you own
agendas. of that much I'm sure.
But who the architect is
I haven't quite decided.
Your guards are dead and not by my hand.
And where's your third wheel?
Busy preparing something perhaps?
- Trying to undermine us will
not throw suspicion from you.
- No more questions?
- We must keep his Majesty informed
- Very concerned all of a sudden.
- Meaning?
- We can't argue amongst
ourselves that's what he wants.
- We should keep the King up
to date with all developments.
- Just in case things don't work out.
- That's preposterous.
I have no hidden agenda.
- Would any of us admit if we had?
- He's gone.
We must protect the king.
(ominous music)
- Who are you and what do you want?
- It is Will. your Majesty.
- Will who?
Have you come to rob me?
- No. sire. I spoke with
you a short while ago.
- You're not another night demon?
I've had all I can take
of visitations this night.
You're a thief and a liar.
This is not my home.
- Your injury. sire.
- I'd forgotten about that
and you too for that matter.
No.
I'm sick of bed.
With the size of me. I've
outlived several dozen beds.
My legs are ulcerated.
Lying in bed makes me feel even
more of an invalid than I am.
Oh. leave it.
It's coming back. slowly.
At my age a poor memory
is a positive advantage.
The life I've had a patchy
memory can be a comfort.
You seem less talkative now. Will.
- Yes. your Majesty.
- I preferred it when
you called me sir. Henry.
Not even my wives would often
call me by my born name.
Are you in awe of your king.
or scared for your life. Will?
- Both your Majesty.
- You wouldn't last a day in my court.
Your honesty would be your down fall.
There is little I can offer
you. so you can keep the ring.
It can be your wage for tonight.
Are you paid much as groundkeeper's son?
You see I did remember?
- It's been some time since
I was last paid your Majesty.
You see I haven't been entirely
truthful about this house.
- I haven't been entirely
truthful my entire life.
so I'll forgive just one night.
There is much about this country which
I choose not to look at. or listen to.
A King who understands
his subjects. his people. too intimately
is in danger of becoming
one of those subjects.
on the inside looking out.
- The house is closed. but
not just for the season.
The library is without
books. they were sold.
as have most of the
possessions in the house
and the staff in the
main have been let go.
- In the main?
I would have said in the entirety.
present company excepted.
And the reason for this thrifty attitude?
- Your Majesty?
- Why is the house dying?
- Taxes your Majesty.
- To keep a fat king fatter
and the warriors fighting.
That's what taxes are for.
The campaign we fought three
years ago cost us dearly.
I demanded benevolence. sold land.
and let us not forget the debasement
of the great English coinage.
All these charges can be
fairly laid at my door.
Did you know that I re-minted the coin
which is now mostly base metal
an enterprise which yielded a good deal
but not nearly enough to see us
through our present
financial difficulties.
- But you have led us well
against France and Scotland. your Majesty.
- Mostly people love their
money before their country.
Just ask your master
which he would prefer.
I dare say he wouldn't like
me lounging upon his hospitality.
- I wouldn't have said so. your Majesty.
- When you're a monarch of my age.
death comes as quite a relief.
There is one final game of course.
one great battle which you must fight.
The timing of death is
something for historians.
but the method can be one of gossip.
The head of Henry is a valuable
currency in some circles.
As you may have gathered.
my enemies far outweigh my friends.
or should I say acquaintances.
since a true king has no
friends. subjects at best.
but eventual enemies in the making.
One of the few constants.
- But your children. your Majesty?
- Mostly poisoned by the wicked
tongues of their mothers.
Although my son Edward will rule.
I must formulate a
council before my demise.
They all talk about my demise.
It's treason to foretell
the death of a king.
Lord Hungerford. lost his life
by trying to predict the demise of mine.
It's not so much when I
expect to be set upon.
As I have taught my best men.
take your enemy when he is at his weakest.
But the question of who
can be a vexing one.
There are so many potential candidates.
This situation is an example.
Even before we left the palace.
there was something amiss.
It's the only diversion which
stimulates me these days.
They circle me. waiting
for me to die. like hawks.
These legs have lasted beyond their duty.
I lose count of the differing
camps of my enemies.
the grievances from the humble
subject up to the Church and Rome.
- I think you'll be glad
to know your Majesty.
that there is now no need for
concern regarding the attack.
They got him on the roof.
- Got who for what?
- Thorn your Majesty.
- What?
You had better explain what you know.
(ominous music)
I cannot make another step.
- Please your Majesty you must try.
My god.
- I don't think he's with us tonight.
Think yourselves lucky
you're already dead.
So this is a library without books.
- Your Majesty. your Majesty.
- Please I preferred plain old Henry.
- Please Henry. we haven't got much time.
- I have done the last of
my running. for tonight.
Probably done the last running of my life.
You.
- For England.
- Your Majesty.
- You cut time to its finest point.
We must both be getting old.
- But the others.
- A king as old as me has
enemies from every direction.
- I fear your Majesty you may have kept
your enemies too close on this occasion.
- The line between friend
and foe is blurred.
My most loyal and oldest
friends have betrayed me.
- Like rotten apples.
- Your enemies are falling over
them selves to be the first.
- And killing themselves in the process.
- [William] King Henry VIII died
on January 28th 1547 around midnight.
His death was kept secret for three days.
During her reign Queen Mary.
his first daughter by his first marriage.
had the body of her father. Henry.
exhumed and as an unrepentant
schismatic and heretic
committed to the flames.
(somber music)